It is really a paradox. An understandable
puzzle. I really want to understand why. 365
days. I launch 365 videos. And I get about
220, 210 views per day on an average. The
next eight days, I launch three videos, and
I get 400 views on average. Where do I lament
about this? Who do I cry about this to?!
(Intro Music)
Namaste! On the eve of New Year, the night
of December 31, 2021, I received a very long
message, an unusually long message, from a
real well-wisher. The message went like this:
They congratulated me of course, and they
said, "Amazing work.. But I already knew.
I knew it on January 1 itself, that you would
keep your word about this sequence!" - and
they added a small incendiary bomb to go with
it: "And, if not for the brake I have applied
now, you will continue for 1000 or even 10,000
days!"
She's my wife. Messaging me. She continued.
She went on with further messages of appreciation.
Crystallising the situation. The discipline
to do this - really hard. The effort you
put in to make each episode as interesting
as possible - truly taxing. And, to do
this as a hobby while being busy at your day-job
at the same time, it is a real stretch. And,
she also appreciated me for being a good husband,
good son, and a good parent, while continuing
to do this. And she underlined it as insane.
It is insanely impossible. And you have only
basically sacrificed your free time and your
sleep. Not fair. Not good. Don't do it.
Almost as if she was giving me a lesson in
the art of giving feedback, she continued,
with this message:-
Hats off, and I want you to reduce the frequency
so that you get to take care of yourself.
That "smart introduction" of "and" instead
of "but"… It is not "hats off, but stop"…
It is "hats off, and change". We have actually
addressed this in an earlier Quotidian. Probably
she has watched that one?? So, this was the
feedback she gave me, and I decided to follow
that sage advice.
At the same time that this was happening,
I wrote to some of our viewers via Whatsapp
and asked them for opinions and feedback.
And, one of them, you could even call him
a rare breed, is a person who quit a high-paying
high-tech software job and dove headlong into
the educational community, wanting to volunteer.
He has been running Team Everest for more
than a decade now. One of the most successful
volunteering NGOs in this educational domain.
It is called Team Everest. Karthee Vidya,
the founder of that organisation, he sent
me this message.
(Embedded Video Message from Karthee Vidya)
Thank you, thank you, Karthee! A few others
also gave me this feedback.. and I also started
noticing that I was finding it harder and
harder to ensure that I didn't repeat something
that I had said earlier. In fact, two viewers
who were regular followers, pulled me up once
for using the same title for two Quotidians.
I think their name is Sumitra. So, there was
that little fear coming in, that I need to
probably get my house in order, before just
continuing everyday.. That was another little
thought that I started getting.
Which is why we came up with this nice little
plan, and I proposed this to the group, and
I shared it with all of you. I even gave a
little clue in the Closing Thought of 365.
"There is a phrase in English. As Easy As
Apple Pie. So, I want to tell you this. Quotidians
are not as easy as apple pie, to make.. Not
as easy as apple pie.. apple pie.. But, we
will continue! Thank you for your patronage,
looking forward to meeting you soon! Bye Bye!"
That is how we had ended Quotidian 365. I
had thought I had given a decent enough clue..
Two smart people from Zoho, one a student
who is currently undergoing Zoho Schools cracked
it. And she said, okay,… pi? The digits
of the irrational number Pi? That is how you
are jumping along. Am I right? - She asked
me. Yes, Renuga Devi, you are right!
Another friend, and colleague, a faculty at
Zoho Schools, he cracked it too, and he said,
this is how it is progressing, am I right..?
I asked him why he was so smart!:-) And
he said, he was in doubt, but looking at the
mention of Apple Pie, you pronounced Pie thrice
too, and so, I decided I should be right in
my approach. Is it right? - Yes, it is
right. We follow the digits, the infinite
digits that come after the decimal in the
expansion of pi. We process each digit. It
goes 3.14…. yes? 1 would correspond to a
gap of 1 day. 4 would correspond to a gap
of 4 days. And so on. That is the proposed
plan. The four-th day. The one-th day. The
zero-th day. Anyway, I will be sharing when
our next appointment would be, just in case
you want to know. Otherwise, just subscribe
to my Whatsapp group, or the YouTube subscription
itself, and you will be alerted when it is
ready.
The faculty member, Manoj Nair is his name,
he even wrote a program to list out when the
next Quotidian would be, and sent the results
to me. Q500 would be on 22 September 2023.
Q1000 would be in 2029. We all should be around
till then, that's the sequence we are going
to continue with. The idea was to let it continue..
I wanted something unending. I wanted something
that would allow me to be irrational. Illogical.
Paradoxical. Conflicting something that I
had said earlier. Pi is the best. Because,
you cannot bring any sequence or true pattern
into Pi. People have searched far and wide.
22 Trillion digits of pi have been analysed.
Unending. And irrational.
To understand about Pi, to learn about it,
I don't need to teach you. A little query
on Google will do. Just take a look. 21 fascinating
facts, 10 surprising facts, 7 interesting
facts, 28 facts, 10 facts, 36 surprising facts,
70 facts,… there is simply too much you
can look up. So, I want to step away from
the mathematical, philosophical, biological,…
pi has a role to play in all of these.. concepts.
And I want to go to the world of movies. The
world of tele serials.
A serial titled Person of Interest - in
Amazon Prime. I used to watch this series.
This actor, by name Emerson, standing in the
middle, plays the role of a person named Finch.
Finch is a mathematician, a computer genius,
who creates probably the first true artificially
intelligent software. And, it so happens that
he is Maths Teacher for a day, as substitute
faculty. So, he will be in that class, teaching
to distracted kids, and… when asked why
they are so lackadaisical, one of the students
responds, "What are you teaching us.. about
pi.. you have drawn a circle on the board..
what is it for, how is it going to be good
for me, what will I use it for"… And, the
professor launches into a one-and-a-half minute
lecture. A beautiful speech.
"This pi is just a ratio between a circle's
circumference and its diameter. Unending.
Non-repeating. A number, in the same sequence,
pattern, you will never see it again in pi.
What does it really mean then? That string
of decimals that stand for pi.. everything
sits inside it. Everything. Your home phone
number. Your door number. Your Aadhaar number.
Your cellphone lockscreen code. Your score
in last month's maths test. The score the
guy next to you got. Your birthday. Everything
sits inside this somewhere. Every number is
inside. And,… if you assign letters equivalent
to the numbers, like A stands for 1, D stands
for 4,… then, everything that Shakespeare
wrote is sitting inside. Why… even the message
you sent your boyfriend yesterday, that too.
Your biography, sits inside. Whatever you
did till now, the first word you spoke as
a baby, all the words you are going to speak
from now on, everything sits inside. So, the
infinite possibilities that exist in this
world, sits here, within that circle. Circle
of Life! What a poignant thought! So, what
you do with this information is entirely up
to you, my dear!" says the professor. So,
I decided to use that information for our
next jump in pi.
But, end of the day, I am a Tamilian. I wanted
to talk to you about Kondrai Vendhan 67. Guess
what it says? "Paiyach chendraal vaiyam thaangum".
Seems, in Tamil, "paiya" means "slowly". In
other words, "Go Slow, and the world will
support you, appreciate you, welcome you".
Please! Thank you!